feat: ping (#263)
libp2p/docs: content/concepts/introduction/protocols/ping.md

---
title: "Ping"
description: "The ping protocol is a simple request response protocol."
weight: 20
---

## What is Ping?

> Ping is a network utility used to test a node's reachability.

Reviewer: This is ICMP ping, not libp2p ping. You can only libp2p ping if you already have a libp2p connection. It’s worth noting here that these are completely different things though.

> Ping is a network utility that can be used as a simple liveness check

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ICMP Ping is a network utility that can be used as a simple liveness check
```

Move this paragraph below the 1st paragraph in "Ping in libp2p"?

> The ping protocol is a simple request-response protocol that measures the RTT

Reviewer: It’s not request-response, the stream is reused for future pings.

Author: The [spec](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/ping/ping.md#protocol) mentions that is is request-response. I believe it is better to introduce the protocol as a liveness check, or state non-ICMP.

for requests sent from an originating node to a destination node by echoing
a request payload.

> ## Ping in LibP2P

Reviewer: Incorrect capitalization. It’s libp2p.

([ICMP ping](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Control_Message_Protocol)),
as it requires an already established libp2p connection.

A peer opens a stream, sends a request with a payload of 32 random

> bytes, and the destination peer responds with 32 bytes on the same stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
bytes, and the receiver responds with 32 bytes on the same stream.
```

Peers can reuse a strean for future pings.

> Typically, a ping is sent over a stream after the initial protocol negotiation.

Reviewer: I don't think that's the case.

> non-linear.

Reviewer: I don’t understand this paragraph. I also don’t think that we need to talk about resource protection concerns in the documentation, that seems like something that should be discussed in the specs.

---
title: "Ping"
description: "The ping protocol is a simple request response protocol."
weight: 20
---

## Ping in libp2p

ICMP Ping is a network utility that can be used as a simple liveness check
for peers to quickly see if another peer is online and measure RTT.

The libp2p ping protocol is different from the ping command line utility
([ICMP ping](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Control_Message_Protocol)),

> as it requires an already established libp2p connection.

Reviewer: I'd start with the libp2p ping protocol, and then contrast it to ICMP ping.

A peer opens a stream, sends a request with a payload of 32 random
bytes, and the receiver responds with 32 bytes on the same stream.

> Peers can reuse a strean for future pings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Peers can reuse the stream for future pings.
```

The ping protocol ID is `/ipfs/ping/1.0.0`.

### Example

> 

Reviewer: Can you call out here that this is what you get when you use kubo?
As a library, libp2p itself doesn't have a command line interface.

---
title: "Ping"
description: "The ping protocol is a simple request response protocol."
weight: 20
---

> ## What is Ping?

Reviewer: I don't think we need 3 paragraphs about ICMP ping. I'd prefer to have a single sentence in the description of libp2p ping:
> The libp2p ping protocol is different from the ping command line utility (ICMP ping), as it requires an already established libp2p connection.

Author: As an introduction to ping it seems useful to have the additional context.

Reviewer: Yeah but this is confusion. We can't have an article about libp2p ping start with 3 paragraphs about something completely different that happens to have the same name.

Author: Updated

---
title: "Ping"
description: "The ping protocol is a simple request response protocol."
weight: 20
---

## Ping in libp2p

The libp2p ping protocol is a simple liveness check that peers can use to test
the connectivity and performance between two peers. The libp2p ping protocol
is different from the ping command line utility
([ICMP ping](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Control_Message_Protocol)),
as it requires an already established libp2p connection.

> ICMP Ping is a network utility that uses ICMP packets to
> check the connectivity and latency between two networked devices.
> It is typically used to check the reachability of a host on an IP network and
> to measure the round-trip time for messages sent from the originating host to a
> destination host.

> A peer opens the stream, sends a request with a payload of 32 random
> bytes, and the receiver responds with 32 bytes on the same stream.
> Peers can reuse a strean for future pings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A peer opens a new stream on an existing libp2p connection, and sends a ping request with a random 32 byte payload. The receiver echoes these 32 bytes back on the same stream. By measuring the time between
request and response the initiator can calculate the round-trip time of the underlying libp2p connection.
The stream can be reused for future pings from the initiator.
```

The ping protocol ID is `/ipfs/ping/1.0.0`.

### Example

> The following example is done using [Kubo IPFS](https://github.com/ipfs/kubo).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Kubo](https://github.com/ipfs/kubo) exposes a command line interface to ping other peers, which uses the libp2p ping protocol.
```
